---
category: consumed
created: 2024-05-28T07:55
tags:
- writing
- thought
title: Week of 2024-05-28
---

[Before the Soul Dawn - Helen Keller on Her Life Before Self-Consciousness](https://scentofdawn.blogspot.com/2011/07/before-soul-dawn-helen-keller-on-her.html)

Some people have a strong inner voice, and [some people think mostly non-verbally](https://mymodernmet.com/inner-monologue/). People love making a [big show](https://x.com/KylePlantEmoji/status/1221713792913965061) of [how shocking](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/mmtvnz/til_not_all_people_have_an_internal_monologue_and) it is to learn that the other type of person exists.

I believe I'm in an unusual minority of people who have lived in both camps: I had nearly no regular mental chatter through high school, but developed it some time toward the end of high school or early college. 

I have always assumed it was associated with my writing ability. Writing a 3-page essay in high school felt like torture[^1]. Even in college, I was barely required to write more than 10 pages at a time due to my engineering course schedule. It was only after I noticed how poor my writing skills were in the working world that I made a concerted effort to improve them; as I did that, I noticed that I started to vocalize whole sentences in my head. This was new. Eventually, entire conversations started happening mentally[^2].
The article by Helen Keller feels like a similar experience to transitioning from no inner voice to having mental dialogue, but turned up by several orders of magnitude. 
While she claims

>_I cannot represent more clearly than any one else the gradual and subtle changes from first impressions to abstract ideas._

in fact, she may have given us the clearest description of what it's like to move from a world of feelings and sensations to one with words.

[^1]: I'm sure there were confounding factors for this feeling besides my writing ability (e.g. not caring about the motifs in A Streetcar Named Desire)

