---
permalink: /consumed/2024-08-august/
category: consumed
created: 2024-08-28T07:55
tags:
- writing
- thought
title: 2024 - 08 August
---

[Before the Soul Dawn - Helen Keller on Her Life Before Self-Consciousness](https://scentofdawn.blogspot.com/2011/07/before-soul-dawn-helen-keller-on-her.html)

Some people have a strong inner voice, and [some people think mostly non-verbally](https://mymodernmet.com/inner-monologue/). People love making a [big show](https://x.com/KylePlantEmoji/status/1221713792913965061) of [how shocking](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/mmtvnz/til_not_all_people_have_an_internal_monologue_and) it is to learn that the other type of person exists.

I believe I'm in an unusual minority of people who have lived in both camps: I had nearly no regular mental chatter through high school, but developed it some time toward the end of high school or early college. 

I have always assumed it was associated with my writing ability. Writing a 3-page essay in high school felt like torture[^1]. Even in college, I was barely required to write more than 10 pages at a time due to my engineering course schedule. It was only after I noticed how poor my writing skills were in the working world that I made a concerted effort to improve them; as I did that, I noticed that I started to vocalize whole sentences in my head. This was new. Eventually, entire conversations started happening mentally[^2].
The article by Helen Keller feels like a similar experience to transitioning from no inner voice to having mental dialogue, but turned up by several orders of magnitude. 
While she claims

>_I cannot represent more clearly than any one else the gradual and subtle changes from first impressions to abstract ideas._

in fact, she may have given us the clearest description of what it's like to move from a world of feelings and sensations to one with words.

[^1]: I'm sure there were confounding factors for this feeling besides my writing ability (e.g. not caring about the motifs in A Streetcar Named Desire)

-------------------
[The Secret Paper Passing Network in Science and Beyond](https://chewychunks.wordpress.com/2010/02/02/the-secret-paper-passing-network-in-science-and-beyond/)

The title is a bit of a misnomer... this is not as much an exposé of some shady science cabal as it is general writing and research advice:

- Write up your results often, much more than you would simply for submitting to research papers
- Pass them to as many interested friends and colleagues who might read them
- This can start a chain reaction where they will pass their ideas to you in turn

--------------------

[Leaky Pipelines](https://gwern.net/note/pipeline)

- When a process consists of multiple steps, each with a fractional success rate, the end distribution will be log-normal instead of normal
- Normally distributed is to additive factors as Log-normal is to multiplicative factors
- Research output is likely log-normal due to this reason: Differences between humans are often close to Normal, but research output can vary by orders of magnitude. 